Israel's defense minister says his
country is facing a war on as many as
seven fronts yav Galant says Israeli
forces are responding to many of them
Iranian back militias have stepped up
attacks against Israel in response to
Israel's efforts in Gaza to wipe out
Hamas a group also linked to Iran and
designated a terrorist organization by
many countries on Monday a suspected
Israeli air strike killed a senior
Iranian General in
Syria Iranian State television
interrupted regular broadcasting to
report the strike and the high ranking
General's death security insiders say
Sayad razi musab was responsible for
coordinating the military alliance
between Iran and Syria Iran backs a
network of proxy militias across the
Middle East to advance its interests and
pressure its sworn enemy Israel mavi was
killed in a suburb of the capital
Damascus in a building allegedly used by
Hezbollah an iran-backed militia that
has been fighting Israel for decades
Israel neither confirms nor denies
having killed
mavi I do not comment on actions
according to foreign Publications any
action in the Middle East obviously the
IDF has a role to defend Israel's
security
interests the Iranian broadcast ended
with the logo of Iran's revolutionary
guards with a voice threatening
retaliation on
Israel for more now let's bring in Benta
sheller she is the head of the Middle
East and North Africa division at the
hinish B foundation in Berlin thank you
very much for joining us on DW first
let's talk about this air strike what
significance do you put on the killing
of the Iranian General in
Syria well apparently it has hit a
really high ranking Iranian General this
time but it is not that special we have
seen many Israeli a strikes in Syria
before and we have seen a list of really
high ranking Iranian Personnel killed in
Syria so it is one of the serious so to
say right which brings me to my next
question Israel and the United States
have made a number of tit fortat strikes
or what appear to be tit fortat strikes
on a variety of targets we're talking
about Syria Iraq the Red Sea do you view
these as isolated incidents or are they
part of some kind of larger
strategy well I think we can see a
pattern here first of all of course we
know that Iran has expanded its role in
the Middle East over the past decades
and it has many proxies so we see here
strikes on Iranian proxies what is
obvious is that it is hitting Iranian
targets that are outside of Iran because
that avoids a direct and escalated
confrontation with Iran itself but it
sends messages we will hit your personal
wherever we find them so you just
mentioned the key word escalation do you
view uh what we're seeing as a widening
or an escalation of the fighting how big
of a risk uh of that do you
see well we can never be sure that there
is no risk but I think that all the
messages that we have seen from the
other states in the region are not prone
to escalate the situation if we may look
at hisbah for example which is maybe the
mightiest power directly on Israel's
borders they have practiced considerable
restraint there have been skirmishes
there have been attacks across border
however I think we see really a strategy
of Hezbollah and Iran not to escalate
but yeah from Israel's rhetoric we
understand it sees itself in a war at
seven fronts and that of CH meus because
confrontations are not unilateral so we
might see an escalation here also from
the from the Israeli side and what about
from the Iranian side because they I can
imagine have to say face they are seen
as this sort of powerful protector of a
number of various uh interests across
the Middle East just how much power do
they have right
now well they really have a vast network
of proxies who can act on their behalf
some of them however are also
considerably independent hisb for
example is also independent of Iran in
many regards so I think Iran has the
potential to manipulate powers that are
outside of its borders but then can
enhance the tension with Israel but I
think allout confrontation is not in
Iran's interest Israel has the might to
hit Iran in a way that really would hurt
and harm the Iranian potential and so
far I don't think that Iran wants to
risk losing all that and the United
States they're also in a very delicate
position supporting Israel opposing Iran
not interested in escalation either what
is the US role here in kind of balancing
all those various uh pieces so to
speak well for the US I think their
interest has has been in the past years
to stay out of the Middle East as far as
possible but now let they see after the
October 7th massacres Israel under
threat I think they feel they need to
engage they don't want to engage in Gaza
obviously and so I think they take care
of Targets in the region where they also
see their own interests at stake and
that is mainly Northern Syria North East
Syria where they still have troops as
well as Iraq where they feel a certain
responsibility after the withdrawal that
they should keep it calm in their own
interest and this is why we are seeing
them engaged here okay B to sh there
with a view to the Middle East from the
hinish B foundation in Berlin thanks
very
much thank
you